---
title: Key Points
summary: 
mocs: 
aliases: 
tags: 
date created: 2024-11-06 16:05
date modified: 2024-11-11 15:45
---
## Taxable Brokerage Accounts
- A taxable account does not offer tax advantages in itself. However, the sale of assets owned in these accounts, are subject to special tax privileges depending on how long the assets were owned.
- Individual **brokerage accounts are subject to capital gains tax when equities (stocks) or debt investments (fixed income securities) are sold**, as well as tax on dividends and earned interest. Capital is a term for money that is invested, and the earnings on that investment are called capital gains. Capital losses are the opposite and generally want to be avoided. However, losses can be useful when used as deductions to reduce taxable income. Capital gains and losses will be covered in more detail later, but the important concept with brokerage accounts is that anytime an investor sells an asset, or gets paid a dividend or interest, this triggers a taxable event, i.e. tax will be owed for the year the sale occurred in.
	- Brokerage accounts are always funded with after tax dollars.
	- Brokerage accounts may be held jointly by two or more people.
- Taxable accounts may or may not be part of an investor's long-term planning, but hopefully they can be, because this usually means that other accounts offering better tax privileges have been maxed out.
## Tax-Advantaged Accounts
- The government offers tax advantages for funding retirement, education, or health savings accounts to encourage people to save for the future.
	- Retirement accounts may only be held by an individual.
	- Rules for married couples who file joint taxes allow an earning spouse to contribute to the non-earning or low earning spouse's individual retirement account (IRA)—one of the tax advantaged accounts that anyone can open.
- Although retirement accounts may be opened through a brokerage firm, **the term brokerage account is synonymous with taxable account**, whereas a **retirement account refers to a tax-advantaged account**, e.g., a 401(k) or an IRA.
	- This will become more clear as you read on, and if you still have questions, [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/investing/comments/1f01m26/any_different_between_a_individual_brokerage/) are some detailed answers given to a novice investor on account differences.
- Retirement accounts and special investment accounts, such as HSAs and 529s, are called tax-advantaged accounts, because any monetary investment growth—dividends, earned interest, and capital gains—is not taxed while the money is in the account. Since these tax advantages are so good, there are limits on how much money can be contributed to them annually.
	- Investment capital into these types of accounts is contributed either pre-tax (as with traditional IRAs, 401(k)s, and HSAs) and is taxed at ordinary income rates when withdrawn, or it is contributed post-tax (as with Roth accounts) meaning it is invested after is has been taxed at ordinary income tax rates and can be withdrawn upon reaching the retirement age tax free.
	- Investment securities<!-- #update_with_instant_preview --> in either pre or post-tax-advantaged accounts may be bought and sold freely within the account without being subject to capital gain tax.
	- The money is taxed either when going into the account or coming out of the account as ordinary income. 
	- Funds may be withdrawn freely after age reaching the [retirement age](withdrawals.md) as qualified distributions. Withdrawals prior to this age will result in a penalty unless [exceptions](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/retirement/02/111202.asp) are met or [special rules](withdrawals.md#early-withdrawals)<!-- #internal_link link --> are followed.
### Pre-Tax
- Pre-tax, aka traditional, retirement accounts are generally more advantageous for people who are currently in a higher tax bracket, because contributions are tax deductible as long as income levels are not too high.
	- The idea is that an individual will be in a lower tax bracket when they retire, and withdrawals of the tax-deferred earnings will be taxed as ordinary income. Although retirement accounts are owned by individuals, when filing jointly, withdrawals are still grouped and taxed according to joint tax filing rules and brackets. Additionally, depending on how withdrawals are spent, they may be eligible for state income tax deductions or tax-free qualified charitable donations.
	- By law, pre-tax retirement accounts require the account owner to begin withdrawing a certain percentage of the account balance annually, by April 1st, upon reaching a certain age to avoid penalty. These withdrawals are called [required minimum distributions (RMDs)](withdrawals.md#required-minimum-distributions-rmds) <!-- #internal_anchor_link -->, and affect tax planning because this money increases adjusted gross income (AGI).
	- **Contributions to pre-tax accounts are tax deductible as *above-the-line* deductions, meaning that when an investor qualifies for the deduction according to their tax filing modified adjusted gross income (MAGI), these deductions are taken in addition to the standard or itemized deduction. It is up to the investor to take advantage of tax-deductible contributions to pre-tax accounts by reporting them on their tax returns.**
	- **Pre-tax contributions are only tax deductible for the tax year they are made.**
### Post-Tax
- Post-tax retirement accounts may be advantageous for people contributing income to a retirement account who are currently in a low tax bracket, because contributions are taxed at current income tax rates and the money may be withdrawn tax free after a certain age. 
	- Since Roth withdrawals have already been taxed, these withdrawals do not count as income during retirement and do not affect adjusted gross income (AGI), which is what determines the marginal tax rate, capital gain tax rate, and if social security income will be taxed. This is a consideration for which account types to use if an investor will also have RMDs from a pre-tax retirement account or income from a taxable brokerage account along with their social security during retirement.
	- Roth accounts are subject to the [5-year rule](https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/personal-finance/retirement/roth-ira-5-year-rule) which requires the account to be open for 5 years from January 1st of the contribution year before any earnings from those contributions can be accessed without tax or penalty.
	- Roth contributions are always accessible without tax or penalty.
	- Roth accounts do not have RMDs, so the investor is free to choose how much, if any, to withdraw each year.
## Making the Most of Tax Advantages
- MadFientist provides a simplified [scenario](https://www.madfientist.com/retire-even-earlier/) of how these accounts can benefit investors, especially those who are planning for early retirement.
- Many investors opt for a combination of tax-advantaged and tax-efficient brokerage accounts to help lessen the tax bill both before and during retirement. Multiple accounts are especially useful for early retirees by making it easier to control AGI later on when receiving social security benefits.
	- For example, investments sold after holding them for more than one year in a taxable brokerage account, which get taxed at long-term capital gain tax rates rather than ordinary income, allow an investor to take advantage of **zero tax on the first ~$50K for single filers and ~$100K for joint filers as of the mid-2020s**<!-- #update_with_current_information -->. These numbers will continue to go up in the future to keep up with inflation. The option to fund multiple accounts during the working years is open to anyone, but how much will depend on earned income, the availability of investment capital and contribution limits.
		- The following strategy shows the importance of understanding how to use pre-tax, post-tax, and taxable brokerage accounts together. It relies on having enough income from a taxable brokerage account to live off of during the early years of retirement, either from dividend earnings or selling investments.
		- The strategy is to fund pre-tax retirement accounts during the working years and **convert withdrawals to Roth accounts early on during retirement when income can be more easily controlled, but only convert as much as can be cancelled out by the standard deduction (or however much an investor is willing to pay in taxes during lower income years of retirement)**. Whether money is withdrawn from a 401k/traditional IRA for spending or converted to a Roth IRA, it will be added to AGI and taxed as ordinary income. Using this conversion strategy, the **money goes into investment tax free, grows tax free, and is withdrawn tax free** (per the 5-year rule). Consider too that eligibility for programs such as Affordable Care Act (ACA) health plans are based on MAGI<!-- #update_with_instant_preview -->.
		- See how it pays off to live below one's means during the investment years to be able to take advantage of multiple investment accounts? This may seem like a lot to figure out at the moment, but when you start to understand the tax laws it will make more sense. The strategy above is covered in more detail in an article from [GoCurryCracker](https://www.gocurrycracker.com/never-pay-taxes-again/). This may not be the best way to take advantage of tax rules in your scenario. Learning how to break down the tax savings from deductions in contribution years, potential earnings growth from investing those savings tax free versus growth in a taxable account, and how much will be owed later—all of which depend on current and future tax brackets—will be key to the best strategy for you.
		- While tax strategy becomes especially important for high net worth investors whose traditional retirement accounts can continue to grow even while taking RMDs, being able to convert taxable money to tax-free investments can benefit anyone.
## Other Considerations
- State law is a factor when it comes to retirement account contributions during working years.
- State income tax can also be a factor when deciding which accounts to withdraw money from during retirement.
- Transferring investment funds between pre-tax retirement accounts does not trigger a tax penalty, e.g., from a 401(k) to a traditional IRA, but if the transfer is to take place between accounts held at different financial institutions and a cash payout is sent to the investor, the money must be deposited into the other account, and the transfer completed, within the 60-day window to avoid paying income tax. The transfer of funds from one account to another is called a [rollover](rollovers-conversions.md)<!-- #internal_link -->.
- When opening an investment account, if the account offers the naming of a beneficiary, you should name one or more. Naming a beneficiary supersedes instructions given in a will, and ensures that the account will avoid probate. Probate is time consuming state court that validates and oversees paying off debts of the deceased and distributing assets according to a will, or in the absence of one. For a married accountholder, a surviving spouse is the assumed beneficiary if no one is named. A beneficiary other than a spouse requires the spouse to waive their right to the inheritance. For an unmarried accountholder, if a beneficiary is not named and the account is not included in a trust, then the account must go through probate. Additionally, a *per stirpes* designation on a beneficiary ensures that a beneficiary's descendants receive the inheritance if the primary beneficiary is deceased when the inheritance is passed on.
- In the United States, the deferral of tax revenue to the IRS by using traditional retirement accounts, and the concern for the future of the social security fund raises the possibility for the government to pass laws that could eliminate future contributions to pre-tax accounts. This will likely not affect funds already invested, but it will result in more income being taxed in the year it is earned.
## Up Next
- This section was a brief introduction to the importance of tax planning when setting up a retirement plan that maximizes an investor's returns.
- A number of concepts have been mentioned so far, and the options that come with these topics are only going to increase. This may cause new investors to start feeling overwhelmed by analysis paralysis, which is based in FOMO. Just remember that options exist because people are in different situations in life. Some people have access to more of them than others. Very rarely will more than a few accounts apply to a single investor and getting started usually involves opening only one or two. Stay focused on building on what has already been covered and learning how to maximize an overall investment strategy by avoiding the major expenses and tax pitfalls that the overly lazy investor can get caught by. Continue to refer back to the [Prime Directive flowchart](https://i.imgur.com/lSoUQr2.jpeg) ([non-US versions](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/wiki/commontopics/#wiki_graphical_version) also available) to help piece things together.
